International calls for restrain
are growing this morning
after Israel has continued to pr
to continue its war against Hama
for many more months.
Recently surfaced video appears
to show Palestinian men
and at least two children
stripped down to their underwear
and detained by the IDF in Gaza.
CNN is unable to verify
when the video was shot, but
geo location data shows
it was filmed in a stadium of Ga
The IDF has not responded
to CNN's request
for comment on that video.
The incident, though, resembles
an account shared
by a Palestinian poet and writer
Moussa Abu Butt Abu toA.
In a new piece
published in The New Yorker,
which claims
he was forced to completely undr
at gunpoint
before being detained
and interrogated
by the IDF earlier this month,
he was trying to cross the Rafah
with his wife and three kids,
including his three year
old son, Mustafa, who is a U.S.
Abu Tor said he was terrorized
and beaten while being questione
about whether he had ties to Ham
Well-known poet
and writer has studied at Syracu
and Harvard and denies
repeatedly any ties
to Hamas or terrorism.
The IDF gave a statement to CNN
noting that it's a partial respo
and that they are still
looking into the allegations,
saying in part, during IDF opera
in the Gaza Strip,
a number of individuals
were detained
on the basis of intelligence
indicating significant communica
between them
and terror organizations
in the strip, out of suspicion
of affiliation
with terror organizations there.
Saab Abu
Tova was found to be
mistakenly identified in this re
and was thus released after ques
The individuals detained
are treated in accordance
with international law,
the Saab Abu told joins us
now live from Cairo, Egypt.
We appreciate your time.
And I want to start
with what the IDF says
in their statement,
because what they don't
discuss in the statement
is what transpired between
when you were detained
and when they realized
or came to the conclusion
it was a mistake. And you were r
You describe it
in visceral detail in your piece
Can you tell people what happene
Well, I was
evacuating the north of Gaza, wh
which Israel has been repeatedly
asking people to evacuate.
And I was going to the north,
to the southern part of the Gaza
in the hope of reaching the Rafa
crossing with my wife and three
But when I arrived at the checkp
that Israel
created on the Salahadin street,
which was called a safe passage
for Palestinians trying to evacu
to the southern part,
I was called by a description
by an Israeli soldier
who was about
150 meters away from the line.
He was
he was asking me
to drop my son and drop my my ba
and join the line of the
other people who were called
who will call before
I was later called by name.
And then I was taken to another
with two Israeli
soldiers pointing their guns at
and they were asking me to undre
I took off all my clothes,
my sweater and pants,
and then I only had my boxer sho
And then the two soldiers
were looking at each other
and shouting in Hebrew.
And then he said, Continue.
Take off the boxer shorts.
And then I looked at the other p
next to me,
the Palestinian
person next to me,
who was also detained with me.
And we were surprised
that they are asking us to
to strip of all our clothes.
So we had nothing to do
but to take off our boxer shorts
And then when I was naked
for the first time in my life
in front of strangers,
I was asked to turn around.
So I.
I did what they asked for.
And then I was handcuffed
and I was blindfolded.
And then I was taken to a very c
and I was interrogated.
I introduced myself in
English and I asked them to
to listen to what I'm saying.
I was just returning to that.
Took to Gaza
ten days before October seven,
and I told them about everything
and he said, You are a Hamas act
And we stopped your wife and
three children.
So he was threatening me with my
They stopped my wife and three c
at the next checkpoint.
I told him,
Do you have any evidence,
any proof that I am Hamas activi
or a photograph,
a video, a satellite image
showing anything?
And then he slapped me across th
He said, You give me a proof.
And I was wondering,
I mean, how could I
how could they give you a proof
that I am not Hamas?
And then I was taken, I was beat
I was violently treated
along with other young people li
And there was one
someone next to me
who was crying and said, please,
I want to go back to my pregnant
wife and my little daughter.
So that that was part of the
the May of my day during the fir
the first day.
And then I was
I found myself
in an Israeli detention center.
Later I knew it was Beersheba
or a better suburb.
And later I was interrogated
by an Israeli captain.
I told him about myself, everyth
And it was not a tough day for m
but for other people. It was tou
And then he said, okay, we will
We are going to verify
the information you give us.
And then 2 hours later,
an Israeli soldier said,
We are sorry about the mistake.
You are going home.
And then I said,
Are you serious about that?
I mean,
I'm going to be with my family a
And he said, I'm serious.
And then I later thought to myse
I mean,
how many mistakes
have the Israeli army
committed against other Palestin
And I thought that
my my quick release was, I think
was a result of the pressure
that was put by measures.
News outlets,
The New Yorker and other medias.
But I'm thinking about
there are many hundreds
other people like me
who are innocent,
who have been living in Gaza,
who have been
unable to leave Gaza to study
or to visit their relatives, etc
who have been born, you know, in
for during a hellish situation.
Right.
And these people do not have the
they had. So
So this has to end.
This is what I think.
To that point, you
you published a public letter
to President Biden
on Christmas writing, quote,
I'm not asking you in this lette
to impose a two state
solution, nor
am I asking for the bringing bac
the lives of the children
and their families.
I'm asking you as a power
to impose a cease fire for peace
and for children and for humanit
When you look at the responses
of world leaders up to this poin
what do you think has been missi
Well, I
I mean, what is missing
is that they are not listening t
what the people in the world
are asking for.
Many people went out in the stre
and they asked for a cease fire,
not because they want Hamas,
but because they want to save
the lives of the children in Gaz
I think this war is not against
and Hamas.
It's it's
it's a war between Israel
and the people in Gaza.
If you look at their numbers,
there are about
21,000 people who have been kill
Half of them are children.
And there is one thing
that is missing in this discours
Half of the population in Gaza,
there are more than 2 million pe
Half of them are children.
So after each airstrike,
after each artillery shelling,
half of the
people who are killed are childr
not to mention the mothers, etc.
So they need to stop this war
to protect the children
and then to try to find
a just solution to the Palestini
It's not only about October 7th.
I was wounded when I was 16 in 2
and no one ever talked about tha
And there are I lost a lot of fr
in my childhood. Right.
But no one talks about this.
I mean, it didn't
start two months ago or three mo
It's been going for a long time.
And we need to find a just solut
to the Palestinian case.
There's a there's a line in your
that really stood out to me.
You wrote
that is details
began to emerge on October 7th.
Quote,
Some Gazans seemed excited
and happy about the attack,
but many of us were perplexed an
Although Gaza has been devastate
by, in your words, Israeli
occupation,
I could not justify the atrociti
committed against Israeli civili
There's no reason to kill anyone
like that.
When you look to the future,
you've been talking about it.
What is your sense of what Gazan
the future?
Do people want Hamas to be invol
in governance going forward?
What is the future?
Well, the
future I mean, the problem,
I think, with
the Gaza is not about only Hamas
I mean, it's
there are there are lots of issu
There is the Palestinian
local rift between Hamas and Fat
itself.
And Israel
has been benefiting
from this political rift.
I mean, what people in Gaza real
They want to have peace.
They want to have their own airp
their own seaport.
They need to travel when they wa
wherever they want.
They need to be respected outsid
who are not respected inside Gaz
because we are being killed
every time from the sea, from th
from the sky, from the land.
But we are not even respected
outside of Gaza.
When you are trying to go to an
I, for example,
I tried to go to the American Em
in Jerusalem
multiple times
and the Israeli side, my permit.
And they want they don't
want us to live in Gaza
and they do not want us
to leave Gaza to study
or to to
learn about other people outside
So people
I mean, people in Gaza
are asking for jobs.
They are asking for a decent lif
They are asking to have their ow
crossing to control the border
crossings in Gaza.
They need to to.
I mean,
this has been
one of my dreams as a child.
I still have dreams of seeing Ga
from a plane window and I still
dreams of seeing Gaza
from a distant ship.
I need to see all these things.
But you are.
I mean, Israel continues to kill
Not during this war,
but even before that.
So why people were concerned?
Because Israel has killed
thousands of Palestinians
without Hamas
invading Palestinian
neighboring towns and cities.
But now, with the scenes
that we have seen on October sev
I thought that Israel would have
an excuse,
an excuse to kill more
and more people and mostly child
So children
and civilians have been the vict
for a long time.
Yeah.
Obviously, the IDF
says that they're responding
in the October 7th
attack and Hamas is intermingled
with the civilian population.
But the scale of the death toll
is certainly something
that is not in dispute.
The IDF also saying they made a
when they detained you.
It is a very important personal
in The New York Times, your baby
Sara, we appreciate your time.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.